From about 1930 until very recent times the cinema enjoyed great popularity in Britain. The first cinemas were the most impressive buildings in the street of many towns. Later, the rapid spread of television brought a great change. The number of cinema -goers dropped and, as a result, 1,500 cinemas were closed. Many of the films were mostly imported from America. Some films were shot in Britain and often directed by British directors, but with American money. The British cinematography was not able to provide the cinema houses with films of its own production.

It was only during World War II and after that the British producers began to make their own films. In this way they voiced their protest against Britain’s dependence on American cinema. A glimpse of hope was seen in such productions as «Hamlet», produced by Laurence Oliver, «Great Expectations» and «Oliver Twist» by U. Lynn, and more recently in «Room at the Top»,-«Look Back in Anger», a number of TV plays, serials and documentaries.

But still the great majority of films dominating the British screen are Hollywood production. Among them are American-made thrillers, westerners, spy-films, horror-films, which have their influence on the British youth. The cinema monopolies are little concerned with the ill-effects of such films as long as they bring in profits. Commercial art which can be cheaply mass produced leaves little, if any, room for real art. This gives an impulse, however, to the young talented film writers, actors and producers to unite their efforts in producing really good films.

Theatre is a popular hobby in Great Britain as well The main theatrical city of the country is London There are more than 50 different theatres in the capital and about 200 professional companies World-famous for its concerts is Albert Hall in London. It performs from mid-July till mud-September, involving a great variety of orchestras and conductors, both British and foreign. Among the first-class orchestras are BBC Symphony, London Symphony, New Philharmonic and others. Choral singing is supposed to be a specialty of the British and there are successful choral societies in many cities.

There are many amateur orchestras, choirs and opera groups even in small county towns. The best players are chosen to play in the county youth orchestras, and a few of the very best may be picked for the National Youth Orchestra. This orchestra is trained by distinguished conductors. It plays in the Royal Festival Hall and in other big concert halls. British people are fond of art and visit international and national music and drama festivals held in their country.
erica’s music culture would be incomplete without blues music. Thought it was created in the early decades of the 20th century, blues music has had a huge influence on American popular music up to the present days. In fact, many key elements we hear in pop, soul, rhythm and blues, rock and roll, have their beginnings in blues music. It has never been the leader in music sales. Blues music has retained a significant presence not only in concerts and festivals throughout the United States, but in the daily life of every person on the planet, as well. One can hear the sound of the blues in unexpected places, from a television commercial to a new country or western song.

The best known blues musician today is B.B. King. His fame is well-deserved. Born in Indianola, Mississippi in 1925, he earned the nickname "B.B." ("Blues boy") while playing on radio programs in Memphis, Tennessee. From the 1940s through the 1960s, he played mostly in clubs in the South that had only black audiences. In 1948, he had a hit record with "Three A.M. Blues" and toured steadily thereafter. His fame spread as he played at blues festivals, concert halls, universities, and on television shows across the country. No other blues artist has worked harder, than B. B. King in his many years of playing over three hundred shows a year.

By the late 1960s, B. B. had perfected his famous guitar style of vibrating the fingers of his left hand as he played, and bending notes to achieve the blues notes, that are such an integral part of blue music. This singing guitar sound, coupled with his expressive tenor voice, brought King great success in 1969 with the recording of "The Thrill is Gone". The song broke through the limited sales of the blues market to achieve mainstream success and brought B.B. a Grammy award.

B.B’s songs display a wide range of emotions, in addition to the sadness, so fundamental to blue music. He combines humor with a keen understanding of human nature in "Everybody Lies a Little Sometimes" and "How Blue Can You Get".

King’s long and distinguished career includes many musical collaborations. Young rock musicians, in particular, appreciate his contributions to their genre. In 1988 B.B. played guitar and sang on the hit song "When Love Comes to Town" by the Irish band U2. In 2001 he recorded an award-winning record with Eric Clapton called "Riding with the King"’.

In a nutshell, King’s guitar work has had a strong influence on thousands of guitar soloists to this day. B.B. King remains the blues’ greatest ambassador.